Someone asked us online how to overcome founder depression. Starting a company is hard. It is often very, very lonely. You're doing a thing that is in some ways kind of crazy and maybe a little bit stupid and that you're taking a huge risk and you're out on your own and you'll feel like the weight of the world is on your shoulders. And as the company gets bigger or changes, this actually just gets harder and harder because you start thinking about people's salaries that you have to account for, promises you've made, things you've said you were gonna do. And so I think the first thing to know is that pretty much all founders go through rough times. If you're feeling this way, it's not the only, you're not the only person in the world. You're not alone. A lot of other people have experienced similar things. I went through some pretty dark times when I had a startup. There were times when things just weren't going well, whether I was fighting with my co-founders or the business wasn't going well. It's hard and it's normal to feel those emotions. It would actually be kind of weird if you were always really, really excited, happy, thought everything was going great and didn't have any issues. So when you think about it, you need to find a way not to bottle everything up deep down inside. When you bottle things up, they tend to explode in bad ways and different people have different mechanics of working through their emotions. One of the things that was really helpful for me is I always had friends and family that were outside of the startup world that I could talk to honestly about how things were going. Most importantly, my wife. It's really important to try to find that. But it's also important to recognize that sometimes it's not enough to just have a friend or a family member to talk to. And if you are feeling depressed, you should seek professional help. There are people who spend their entire lives trying to help other people work through bad times and through depression. It's not something that you can flick a switch with and fix. It's often a lot more than just going through a hard time with your startup and you need to talk about it. You know, find someone who knows what they're doing. Find someone who can help you. But don't let it simmer for a really long time because you think it's weird or bad or any of that stuff. It's normal and the faster you deal with it and the more proactive you are in dealing with it, the better. I'll close with one last thing. If you're a founder, you probably have some other friends that are founders. And if you think they're going through hard times, don't just ask them how things are going and let them respond with, oh, it's great right now. Everything's going well. It's rarely ever the case. Really be there for your friends and for fellow founders. Try to help people if you see them going through things that you've gone through. I think that by helping each other we create a little bit of a better world. It's a little hokey, but I think it's true. The community of founders is actually fairly small and it's a better place when we just look out for each other. Thank you.