Next you're going to meet Kadrin Cowansage, who I have the pleasure of working with at YC. She's a software engineer at Y Combinator, and she's the founder of Leap, an online community that I'll let her tell you more about right now. Hi. I'm Kadrin. I, as you heard, I'm a software engineer at YC and the creator of Leap. It's a private online network for women in tech to talk about whatever we want. And I'm so excited to be here and to tell you about it. So I first started working on Leap because I didn't feel like I had a place online where I could talk openly. I felt like conversations online often escalate quickly to shouting matches and people opt out, especially women. And I wondered what would happen if I created a community where the core culture was set by women and the product and software decisions were also made by women. I couldn't think of a community like that, but I wanted to be, I wanted to be part of one. So the idea for Leap actually first started at the first female founders conference. I'd flown in from New York where I lived at the time and I was sitting in the audience and was struck by the number of smart driven women all in one room. And it was strange because in my day-to-day life, I had a handful of female friends who worked in tech, but it felt like there were very few of us. But when I looked around the room at the conference, I realized how many of us there actually were. How many strong technical experts with so many great ideas, so many connections, and so much power. So when I started working at YC, Leap started as a place where me and my colleagues could just kind of talk and get to know, you know, more about our ideas and what we were thinking about. And once I validated that we actually wanted to use the product, and fix some bugs, we started sharing Leap with the network of female founders at YC, our friends and former colleagues, and organizations that support women of color, and organizations that support women in engineering. So another part about Leap is that we use our real identity. It's on there. And that is, you know, the idea behind that is that in my life, the relationships that have been the strongest are the ones that are based on these social and and professional interactions. And so my hypothesis was that if we created a network that was a hybrid social and professional community, that it would foster, you know, civil discourse and authentic conversations. And so that was, you know, the the core of Leap. And the idea is that, you know, those kind of relationships can help propel us in the industry. On Leap, you can go talk about, you know, your favorite book with another member, and then a few days later, or whatever it is, that other woman can help you find your next job or your next investment. I've already heard stories from members about finding co-founders and finding new jobs. So that's super exciting to me. So we are, at this point, about 2,000 members strong. We are software engineers, founders, VCs, designers, writers. We work in sales and operations. The list goes on. So we talk about all sorts of things, too. You know, one day it's conversations about career development, and the next we're talking about, you know, tactical issues we're having with our companies. We talk about everything from relationships with our partners, to raising kids, our favorite books, and our favorite podcasts. You know, all sorts of stuff. So if you think that Leap sounds interesting, you can go to leap.ycombinator.com. So that's Leap. You may see it over there in blue in a few minutes. It's leap.ycombinator.com, and we'd love to have you join. So looking forward to getting to know you on Leap.