Hi, I'm Aaron group partner at YC and welcome to another episode of design review Today we've got a special episode We are coming at you from the web flow offices and I'm joined today by Vlad co-founder and CEO of web flow Thank you very excited. Thank you for hosting. So today we're actually going to be hosting Is that a website hosting pun? You're welcome for hosting So today we are going to be reviewing Websites that were specifically built in web flow so Hopefully this will give you a good sense of what's possible with web flow and also some of the pros and cons of building Really amazing landing pages and so obviously Vlad has seen millions of these things So together we are going to give a lot of design feedback that will hopefully be useful to all of you Let's jump into the first website So the first one we have here is Oda studio stand out with your property photos Let's see This makes me think it's something about photos for Airbnbs or rental properties or something much anywhere you might need because it's you know property managers marketplaces home Builders could be a generic property photo service that you can feed into anything. Yeah, so Is this software is do they send? Photographers to your place to take the photo. That's not immediately clear to me upgrade and organize So it's like photo management Basically an asset management tool that you can put into other places image enhancements and labeling Customize the home buying journey. I think the tagline stand out with your property photos Kind of it's probably a little too broad. Yeah Yeah, I think we're both struggling here to figure out exactly what this is a lot of times for your website You want to be focused on? Communicating what is it first and foremost and then the user that hits the site? they want to know is this for me and I think they do a good job of the is it for me because if I have a Property that I need to take photos of I feel like oh, this is interesting but It's not clear to me exactly what they do with those photos. Yeah All right, let's see. So by the note 40 businesses a million photos. So here's an example Okay. So now I'm thinking this looks like software to make the photos look better. Oh interesting. It's the same exact No, it looks like Potentially, I think it might be. Oh You're right. So it's an augmented photo. Yeah If you go to the next see the next one, it's a good use of a slider Okay, it does look like the exact same framing it's not like somebody came in oh no like the clouds are different So it might just be this is taken by a not pro and this is taken by a pro potentially I'm not sure if the staging is done manually. Yeah, I wonder if this is software staging where you take crappy photos of an empty room and then upload it to their software and They make it look like a well-lit Well-furnished and designed room that would be my guess but so website wise They're really missing out on an opportunity to communicate some of this stuff more clearly. It says this product exam Is the product the photo itself or the management or it's not clear it's it's very generic just saying like product example They should say like here's how our software Automatically adds furniture or enhances the quality of the photo or adds a crazy sky Apparently start for free probably goes to a signup experience. Yep, and then it's a little hard to tell what? What this actually professional quality property photos no pro required Okay. Oh, here we go. Okay. This is a this is a little better. What what page is this? How did you get to it? So I clicked on from the home page It looks like based on the URL that's popping up here. These go to different user personas that might use their software So I clicked on property manager and then it looks like down here why use Ota studio smart enhancements We're dad stage. This is where they should be on the verge. Yes. Yeah, this is what we're looking for And maybe you know, sometimes I see this work Well, if you're if you're buying ads or you have certain landing pages that are targeting certain users Then this can work well to have it here But for anybody who hits your home page directly It's not gonna be clear to them and this page goes a much longer way towards communicating. What's actually what the software? Yeah, just by pairing the same exact slider. You see it before and after photo That's the same photo and the value prop or what it actually is premium virtual staging It means I'm not a property manager, but I can immediately connect. Okay, I can see how this is a solution for me especially if you can communicate how your product is gonna help them get more rent or List it faster find a renter faster That's actually gonna go a long way because instead of just talking about specific benefits. You're actually talking about the value that you can provide Which is like make more money get your listings rented faster with this. That's probably The benefit that I would focus on one thing. I do like about this site. It's just it's really straightforward in the design It's pretty simple. It's No frills, no, you know egregious animation I think that what really needs work is the content to to make sure that it really Is more clear what they do and yep what the product yeah, there's good stuff here. I think we get it now It just took a while So yeah It seems like further down the page is the really valuable stuff and that should be pulled up a lot higher Things like Otis studio by the numbers like I don't even have context to know what they do at this point And so that can go that's probably a social proof and attempted social proof can go way down But I think you're right. It could do a little polishing on what exactly this is and who it's for Cool well founders of Otis studio it sounds like there's a lot of room for improvement to be able to just add more clarity around specifically what you do and I think that's gonna go a long way to attracting the type of customers that you're looking for Okay, let's try the next one. We got fly code here We free developers from product edits So I'm guessing product edits as in product managers saying I want this edit. Yeah product designers. Hey, I have this new update in Figma Yeah, so product people ourselves. We know that feeling of tapping on an engineer shoulder and saying hey can you change this code or do this thing and they're like that's like the hundredth thing on my to-do list and I don't really want to work on that right now. And so this I assume lets Non-technical people because it says no code here helps product making edits Helps product teams work with software engineers to ship better products faster with no code. All right, I can I'm curious to how it works, but I'm intrigued This is I'm a little confused that the animation that happened here if three minutes means like it's a three minute setup I guess yeah, if you connect your code three minutes from now You can have like this no code solution for product folks and the three the thing I noticed while the page loaded There was an animation. So it kind of takes your your eyes there right away. Yeah, and maybe Distracts from what you really want them to read first. That's a great point Anytime you have animations and you have things that are moving on the page that always draws the viewers eye And so it's a good Idea to use that when you're trying to highlight something that you want to make sure that somebody pays attention to first But if you're doing it for something, that's not the main thing You can be distracting from the main thing that you actually want somebody to focus on Yeah, it looks like what they're trying to do is cram all the key information Mm-hmm up in the top as close to above the fold as they can and I think actually a lot of users are comfortable scrolling Mm-hmm And so I would think about it as unveiling different layers of the onion for what you want to communicate and so I think did a good job of Communicating to us exactly what the product does here assuming we're correct about it. And then down here I think they're trying to communicate too many things instead I think we maybe need a little bit more information kind of your point about the three-minute thing like What is it? How specifically does it work at this point? Mm-hmm. All right. So let's see what we got when we scroll down make product changes without coding I think that's one of the other things is when you're designing your page The headlines are the things that are really gonna stand out to people. So we hit this we read this headline We read the sub headline because it's up at the top and then we spent a lot of time here Just because we were trying to decipher what was going on But I think if we were actually, you know potential users of this product we would have gone I don't really know what's happening here And then we said, okay make product changes without coding edit product flows in one place to free developers time We would kind of keep skipping down and just reading the headlines and and so it's really important that your website The headlines tell the story that you want to tell as you're scrolling down Yeah, and one thing I noticed on the two almost competing headlines because the first very top one I'm guessing that's the h1 is we free developers from product edits as in like Developers get the vast majority of the value as in you know I don't get distracted and then if you scroll down the second byline is actually we're for product teams, right to Potentially work better with software engineers and then make product changes without coding Usually it's not developers who want to do that They have a way to do that and it's now the value prop is for You know product managers or product designers, etc. So maybe consolidating that that value to you know product and engineering teams And how how can you create sort of like the value add for them together? This could be a little confusing into who you're actually trying to land this message with developers or product folks Yeah, that's the biggest thing people are gonna hit this website and they're gonna go is it for me? and I think we Have experience working with both developers and product people and understanding both of their challenges But I think if I was just a product manager as my background the developer line might not resonate with me I might say like oh it's for developers. It's not actually for me and I get you know at Webflow We have the same tension between you know, you want to speed up the designer developer workflows You don't want to like paint developers in negative light like avoid developers or I know here It's sort of help developers work on other things So it's a it's a there's a lot of tension to navigate. So you want to get the messaging, right? So this cool down here we get to some social proof. Here's some people that have used it That's super important. It's it's you know, once I understand what is this? Is it for me getting to some social proof around like does this work? Can I trust it? Is really helpful. And so we got some people here and some quotes and I don't know Maybe these are made up or whatever but like they put their face behind it They put their company name behind it. So anytime I see a face and a title and a company. It's Unless you're doing something really shady This is really seems like a real person and we even got some it looks like some tweets or something like that about them So this seems like a real product and I think the website visually looks great Yeah like it looks professionally done and it Sets a high bar for their product where I I think there's like professional product people that are working on this and the product probably Works well, too. I think the biggest takeaway for me is like who is it for? It's called fly codes It has something to do with code. There's like benefits for non developers developers freeing software engineers There's some confusion here that I think warrants some some polishing. Yep. Great Awesome. Nice job fly code Okay. So for our next website, we're gonna take a look at this one is actually submitted by a viewer of the channel So looking forward to dive in with Colossian here Create videos with AI actors real easy okay, this is one of those things where like The promise sounds really great. Yeah, but the execution oftentimes is lacking And so the first thing that I want to do is see a video of this I just want to see if this actually works and if it There and that's awesome because there's a video right here. So let's check this out and see if this Users enjoy full commercial license to use their videos freely online and offline What are you waiting for start with synthetic videos for free today? Okay Interesting. So like that was pretty cool. I don't necessarily think it's a human. Yeah, it's got that uncanny valley Effect so that's a little bit more about the product. I do actually like the fact This is one of the only websites I've seen where you know A lot of websites try to get to you see watch videos where it's like it's only 15 seconds. Yeah, and I think that Puts your guard down around. Okay, this is not gonna take a lot of time. That makes sense to me I've got some social proof Lots of videos. So I actually kind of like this It looks like they're using their own product to to demo the videos to sell their own product Yeah, I'm curious the first they immediately jump into Personas so hello managers. Yeah, so all of a sudden I kind of go from AI actors, I guess e-learning content and all of a sudden it's managers I'm guessing at companies to do like corporate training. I wouldn't have expected this as being like the primary target That's right who they want to go after. Yeah, they book a demo also I wonder if there's a way to just Right here at the top have a text box that people can put their text into and just see it generate it Yeah, and then you get your own content. Maybe you can't save it out Yeah until you start paying that could be a great way to get people through the funnel of actually trying and being like oh man I got the thing right here and it works. I just want that video and I'm ready to go Yeah, my guess is it's you know, non-trivial or not free to generate these videos Yeah, so it might be too expensive of an acquisition And then let's take a quick look at one of the use cases here What do we like? Videos Let's try explainer videos and it looks like the use cases don't directly match to right What was that? They were trying? Yeah, that is a little weird Okay, I'm not sure what's happening here. Yeah, this is a little maybe feels a little unfinished Yeah, whether it's a like a flow or different categories of what you're trying to do Okay, yeah, yeah, I don't think I would read this. Mm-hmm. I would just look at I'd be like increased sales 64% make a human connection boost and yeah, it's kind of overwhelming with too much text Okay. So yeah, it looks like this can be improved. It seemed like the home page. It was pretty clear what they do I think it's something just changed here. Whoa, we just got a new maybe as you scroll create videos with Okay, we got a new video I think I think the site maybe the power of web flow and pushing a new version Okay, this is a little bit more clear because it's you know, choose an actor give them a script generate your video Yeah, so this is almost training videos can cost up to five thousand dollars per minute With Colossian our clients save thousands on expensive studio. Okay. Well, we got like the It's like the feedback we just gave And then generate your video in minutes. So, okay So one thing that stands out to me with a demo is when it's bigger It looks less accurate like the mouth when it was smaller. It was a little more credible. Yeah, so I This actually unsells me a little bit more But I think this UI of like getting me to actually build it and see how it works is is definitely something that I'm interested in Yeah, I think that's a good point. Yeah, I think that's a good point But I think this UI of like getting me to actually build it and see how it works is is more effective than the Single demo video that they had. Yeah, so being really precise around what you're using as your showcase demo is really important. Yep Very I think the the challenge here is not necessarily the the website and if this is a hard problem to solve the challenge is like can you get people to believe that this is a good enough replacement for Live human beings and I think the targeting with the specific use cases. Yeah, I think we look at this and we're like wow This is really cool tech and then I can't off the top of my head think of something I would be really excited to use this for I think the the multi-language portion Yeah Really sells it for me potentially if you have a use case where you really want to create video content led by a host And you really needed that many languages feels like this is the only way to really do that unless you're only doing subtitles and And not having that like more native experience Yeah, and we had to go all the way down in order to find that and pull that out So that might be something to put up here. Right, right. Awesome Nice job Colossian very cool product beautiful website Well done just a quick break to tell you if you want your website to be featured in a future design review episode Submit your information in the link in the description down below now back to more reviews Okay, let's take a look at artifact now Great name artifact. Yeah, very cool and all of these that we've looked at so far They all have these beautiful headers and videos and it seems to be a common theme That I think we're seeing here which definitely gets my attention and sets the stage So I see a lot of families and kids here very grabs you on an emotional level. Yeah, she only grows up once I don't want to forget it artifact creates a personal podcast series about your child Okay, this is interesting so we both have kids yeah, I said I have daughters and she yeah hits me on a heart level Maybe this is a product for me. Yeah, I just had a new baby three weeks ago, too So now's the time to be thinking about this So, all right, let's see But it's not immediately clear to me why I would want a personal podcast series about my child like photos or some videos like that Makes sense to me. So I'm curious if they can convince me that I would want a podcast Yeah, and immediately I'm sort of I I start to pay a lot of attention to the video And trying to connect is this a person using the product? I think so. Yeah, there's like interviews or is it? Maybe is it a video podcast? Are you recording only? Only voice like little notes around what's happening Yeah, so they've gotten a lot of coverage. Yeah, so I think from up here what I take away is Okay, it's a podcast about your child. So like cool. I get what it is I get that like is it for me because it's like if you don't have a child it's not for you If you have a child this for you And then I go down and I see this and I start to see today shows CBS Wirecutter Wall Street Journal So like seems like they've gotten a lot of really impressive press which makes me take this seriously, too So that's really good. Yeah a lot of it Some of the quotes are great because it says like memorable keepsakes Shareable audio heirloom, I'm guessing it's more for a close-knit families. It's not something that you beautiful gift Yeah, it's maybe great gifts for families. Okay, so let's see. Okay, how do I get an app? Is it a subscription? Is it? Yeah, you know something where you like play, you know Let's see We interview you about your child a pro interviewer. Ah, it's just a service half an hour over the phone we edit and deliver within five days a Beautifully produced episode that lives in your family account. Okay family account. Is that on their website? Do I need an app for that? Is that like on? some podcast platform Monthly follow-ups text you a personalized question each month answer with a voice note and we add it. It's very interesting That is not what I expected From the personalized podcast initially, I was thinking, you know parents every day and do a little interview with their kid Or ask them about their day and then you keep that as a memento. This is a professionally produced interview with a parent about their child to keep as a keepsake with some I'm not quite sure voice notes that are added. Yeah, I was imagining more of like the voice notes as like a Software product that you're using and it seems more like you the parent documenting The kids life rather than the kid actually being involved actually maybe when they get older I think most folks seeing this will now immediately think okay. How much does it cost? What is that? I can see sort of the process and how gifting works. Yeah, we can hear what one sounds like How do I She pulled a toy airplane out of her little toy box and held it up in the air and started flying it around So she knew what the airplane does even though we've only talked about that maybe twice Okay, hmm. So kind of documenting through stories. Yeah your child's life This wasn't obvious to me that I could click on this to play it. Yeah, I think like a big play button It would be more obvious. Mm-hmm. This was a good clue here. I like the background music. It sounds like good quality Yes, that seems kind of professional. So I like that. It's like that makes me think of like This is a little bit more like pro audio scrapbooking. Mm-hmm to Remember like these moments about your child and then professional interviewers So journalist journalist journalist actor and podcast host, so I see New York Times in the Guardian All right, this is like some professional and I'm guessing you send this out to family or just keep it Yeah, let's see. They're crafted into instant heirlooms Do you have to play it through their app? Oh and you can add photos, too Yeah, it looks like an app that they have here an artifact app And I guess you share the app with friends or maybe it's web-based Yeah, actually, maybe that's a URL down there. So that's probably web-based something on their website. Mm-hmm I'm very curious. Does it require an account if you send it to other folks? Mm-hmm. It's a monthly subscription So I'm guessing that a lot of the value is in these like monthly follow-ups, yeah that then family get to Kind of relive I Do this thing with with my daughters where I do one second every day It's a similar product where you record videos throughout the day and then you remember one second. Yeah, it's a mark in the app That's what it is. And you can relive the The year this feels like a similar Yeah value at isn't like don't forget the little moments and create this Almost like profile of my kid. Cool. How long are interviews? Yes interesting. It's very beautiful. Yeah Looks great quality seems good pristine. Yeah a lot of press Seems like something I can trust they've even got their reviews up here a thousand plus reviews nearly five stars. They're Very cool. Yeah, very awesome. Seems like something I'd probably give it a try. I'm gonna check it out. Awesome Yeah, cool. Nice work artifact. Great job. Well done. Well, awesome. That's our videos for today. Hope you all enjoyed them Thank you to everybody who submitted your websites and especially huge Thank you to you Vlad and web flow for hosting us here. Really appreciate it. It was an immense pleasure It's always awesome to see what can be built with web flow and what startups how startups are trying to get their message out there it's it's always a Challenge and a struggle but so worth it to find a connection with customers, etc. And so great to have you here Yeah, it's a beautiful space. We really appreciate it. Awesome. Well, thanks everyone. We will see you on the next design review