Hello, I'm Steven from Artifact, and today on MeetYC, I'm speaking with Alex Alvarado, one of the founders of Daybreak Health. Daybreak has a really important mission, and they're at a very exciting point in their journey as a company. So without further ado, here's Alex. My name is Alex Alvarado, I'm the CEO at Daybreak Health, where we're building the leading digital mental health system for children and youth. There's about 20 million kids ages 6 to 24 that are struggling with mental health issues, so we're trying to solve that problem in the United States, and I can talk more about that in a little bit. But just to give you a little bit of a sense of my background and how I got here, my passion has always been healthcare, so ever since graduating from Stanford, I've worked in various different healthcare environments, usually wedded with technology in some way. So I worked on the first insurance exchanges under Obama's administration, and then I went more into the private sector I really wanted to build from the ground up, so I joined a company called GIF, which is an employer health benefits platform, as their first product hire helped grow that to an acquisition, and then most recently was a leader on the product team at Castlight Health, which is another healthcare company that works in the employer benefits space. So my background has always been in product, building delightful experiences for users and trying to marry that with the complication that is the healthcare system. And Daybreak was a really personal mission for me, and it continues to be a really personal mission for me. My younger brother ended up in the hospital, in the emergency room as an escalation from teenage depression in his early 20s, and really just opened my eyes to how difficult it can be at that age to get the care you need, and ultimately I ended up, after helping a vet get back on his feet as a brother, first and foremost, I ended up deciding to dedicate the next however long it takes in my life to try to solve this problem that is the youth mental health crisis. Wow. Yeah. Well, can you speak a bit more about what the unique challenges of getting that kind of care at that age are, and what you guys are doing to try to solve those? Absolutely. So when you think about three big challenges, number one is identification of the problem and triaging that problem into treatment. About 12 years usually pass between symptom onset and treatment when you're an adolescent, and it's usually because the signals are coming from a bunch of different places, they might be coming from school, your parents might be noticing something, but usually they're actually not the first people to notice. And then sometimes your pediatrician may know something, but usually isn't well-equipped to get you into the right care. And so identification of that need and triaging that into care is really tough. So that's number one. Number two is just historically, mental health treatment has not been designed for children and adolescents. It's been designed for adults. It's been designed for this single person, that is the adult was their own decision maker and can engage one-on-one with the therapist and can make decisions about their healthcare. And it really hasn't taken into account historically that when you're working with kids, you've got to work with their parents, you've got to work with their family unit, you've got to work with their school. And so we're trying to build kind of the first we call it multiplayer therapy system, where what you have is an integrated treatment model that encompasses all of those different stakeholders. And then the last thing that's been a really big challenge in this space is just the cost of care, right? Therapy sessions can cost $200 a session. that haven't been sponsored by health insurance. They're also not available through school programming. Fortunately, some of the tides around that are shifting and we're trying to take advantage of that so that we can build a world where every kid can get access to high quality mental health care for free, regardless of their socioeconomic background. Let me ask, I mean, you talked about the challenges that Daybreak is trying to address. What have been some of the biggest challenges that you've faced as you've gotten going? The first biggest challenge we faced was who do you build the solution for and who do you market it to? One of the reasons there hasn't been a lot of innovation in this space is that when you think about where the wallet is or who the buyer is for that care, it becomes a lot trickier, right? You have to think about the parents, you have to think about public funding, you have to think about insurance funding. And for us trying to navigate in the early days, who are you marketing to, who are you building for, who do you ultimately have to drive outcomes for to make this a viable product in the market has been a challenge. And we evolved from marketing to the teens, realizing that they don't really have the buying power to make their own healthcare decisions. We then evolved to marketing more directly to parents and that worked for a while. But ultimately, even parents' ability to afford a solution like this is limited, right? And it limits you to probably the upper 20% of the socioeconomic ladder when it comes to people being able to buy their own therapy. And so now we've evolved to a blended B2B to C model where we're still serving youth and parents, but most of the funding for our services comes from school districts or health plans. And I think we've really found something there, but it took us a while to kind of navigate that landscape. And I think we are at this really, really exciting point now where we think we've figured it out. And I think we're starting to move really fast with health plans and with school districts, as I mentioned. And so what I'm really excited about over the next 18 months is the challenges changing from how do we find product market fit to how do we scale this as quickly as possible, get it into as many kids' hands as possible over the next 18 months. We're in California only today, but I'd like to expand and continue to grow the business at what will be an increasingly rapid rate. And obviously there's a bunch of challenges that come with scaling the team, scaling how we think about providing a quality clinical product and all of that. But fundamentally the really exciting challenges, this is what you live for as a startup founder is that moment you really feel like you've got a solution market that resonates and scaling it up is the biggest thing that you've got to do. Besides yourself, who are a couple of people who have been influential in this story and who are some people who have maybe either influenced you personally as you've been starting this company or who have helped you guys make it what it is? Absolutely. I mean, first and foremost, my two co-founders, Sid and Luke, who I've worked with a lot in previous lives and both bring a lot of passion to this space. Sid's sister is actually an adolescent mental health therapist. So he brings up a personal connection from that lens and they've been with me pretty much since day one. Luke bringing the technical side of things and Sid bringing the operational chops to really scale what we're doing. And so definitely couldn't have done any of this without them and the early employee team as well. So I'd say that's kind of like the biggest impact so far. And I think looking forward, the most exciting thing, as I mentioned before in terms of influence and just thinking about who's really going to be important in this story is the district leaders and the health plan leaders who are making the big courageous decision to step forward and provide mental health solutions for their population and in ways that haven't been done before. So that's kind of my looking forward take of who's going to be most important. You said earlier, I think, that people were starting to adjust their attitudes and that there may be a lot more hope for adolescent mental health in the future. What are a few things that are giving you hope on that front? It's a really important question. I'm glad you asked it. So number one is that the attitude, the societal attitude, and what we always talk about as stigma around mental health is changing. And particularly among this youngest generation, Gen Z, they're open, they're talking about mental health, they're vulnerable, and it's just amazing to watch. And it gets me really excited for even things that my generation weren't open to doing in terms of engaging in our mental health and thinking about it and trying to be proactive about it. So that's one thing. The second thing is just from an infrastructure and kind of call it like a macroeconomic perspective, I think that all the way from the federal government down into the state and local governments, you're seeing this shift of bringing more funding to solving this problem. And that is incredibly important for businesses like Daybreak to be able to scale, but it's also really important for all the other organizations that are involved in providing mental health care to youth to be able to provide their services and meet the need. And there's kind of like a once in a generation shift that's happening right now. To me, I think what everyone now recognizes is a true crisis, right? Like I said, there's 20 million kids ages six to 24 that are struggling with mental health issue, up to one third are struggling with anxiety. And that has really only sort of been accelerated during the pandemic. So there is that big sort of scary part of it, right? The crisis. But I think the societal readiness to address the problem as well as the infrastructural funding readiness to address the problem is really what gives this kind of a hopeful outlook for me. Yeah, well, that's really great to hear. And that's about all the time we have. But thank you. It was really great to hear about this company. And yeah, thanks for joining me and keep fighting the good fight, I guess. Thanks. Really appreciate it. Thanks for having me on.