I'm Kat, one of the partners at YC, and I'm going to bring on a bunch of the partners with me today to help answer some of the questions that you sent us. Thanks for sending all the questions. Let's bring everyone out. All right. Let's have everyone introduce themselves really quick. So let's go down the line. Let's start with Adora. Oh, hey. I'm Adora. I'm Tim. I'm Jared. Michael. I'm Dalton. I'm Kirstie. And so we just took all of your questions and are going to probably get through hopefully about 10, and then if there's any that we can't get to today, we'll try to answer them online for you. But let's start with, if you know you want to eventually start a startup, when should you do it? What's the best timing? And how do you navigate the tradeoff between becoming a domain expert and just doing it now? If you want to start and you have an idea, I think you should just start now instead of trying to figure out the tradeoffs. I think when you start, even if you're not an expert, you should be on your way to becoming the domain expert, and you can do a lot by going in the field and doing the actual job itself or whatever research you need to do to make yourself a domain expert. But in one or two years' time, you better be the domain expert in that field. Yeah, I'd add to that. If you don't have an idea, I thought Mark and Dreesen's advice was really good. Go join a hot startup for a couple of years. Get an idea of what a well-run startup looks like. So when you do have your idea, you're kind of ahead of the game. Yeah. All right. So what is a good process for discovering and vetting new ideas that might be worth building? I always tell founders two things. One, look in their lives and look in the lives of their family and their community and their work and find problems that interest them. And the other thing I say is think about what you want the first line of your Wikipedia article to be. Because every startup has the potential to be your life's work. So don't think about warm-up startups. Think about going out and doing your life's work, solving a problem in the world you care about. Yeah, I think that's good. Sometimes people come up with ideas that seem impressive to other people. You're going to tell someone about your startup idea. You try really hard to make it sound fancy and to use buzzwords. And I think a better way to do that instead of that is to find something that you're deeply passionate about and you can't stop thinking about. And it may not actually sound impressive to anyone. There's a good chance that when you try to tell people about the thing you're actually excited about, it sounds stupid and they laugh at you and say it's a bad idea. If your only criteria is what impresses other people or impresses authority figures, you can go way off track following that criteria. So this segues into another question that came up, which is how do you choose between an idea that you love, that you're super passionate about, but it might be impossible to monetize? How do you choose between that and a product that has great revenue potential? How do you know that? Yeah. You should work for YC. We would love to know that, too. So one of the things that YC has emphasized over and over again is how hard it is to be a solo founder. So there's a question, you know, do you have any advice for solo founders? Or how did Ushma, for example, convince YC to accept Gobble? What was it in her application that convinced you? I think all things equal, it's better to have a cofounder. But quite frankly, at YC, we've accepted many companies with solo founders. And I think then you're going to have to, you know, you just have to come with us with something that's very unique to you. So I'm not sure exactly what Ushma had in her application. But if you have traction, if you have some really unique insight on how you're going to acquire users, retain users, all these things, and you just know your shit, and you come across as very competent, you know, more than competent, then we would definitely would like to talk to you. And I think the other thing to bear in mind is that startups are hard for two founders, for three founders, for everybody. And so coming in as a single founder, you have to be pretty much superhuman, because you have to do everything. You know, you either are out selling, or you're out building the product, or you're out fundraising. And so you have to be able to combine all of those things. Whereas if you have a cofounder, and one of you is great at sales, and one of you is very technical, there's more of an obvious split there. So you know, there is definitely a superhuman element to being a single founder. Yeah, I'd also add to that, that starting a company is an emotional roller coaster. And it's really hard to do by yourself. It's always nice when there's someone else next to you that feels the same pain, right, that you can commiserate with, because it takes that to kind of get through some pretty tough times. In a room alone, kind of absorbing all the pain yourself, it can be overwhelming sometimes. Specifically, I remember when Ushma came through YC, and when she'd applied, and I remember that we just said throughout, all of us said, like, Ushma never gives up. Like, Ushma will never give up. Ushma will keep on fighting until this works. And I think we'd seen, you know, she'd already been working on Gobble for a number of years before she'd applied. And it was clear that this was something that she was very passionate about, and that she was just going to keep working on it. Like, the story was similar to, you know, you have to be a cockroach. It reminded a lot of people, I think, of how the Airbnbs almost failed, you know, three times before they actually got things up and running. So one question maybe for you, Kirstie, is what are some tools or services that you would recommend for founders who are just starting? Yeah, there's loads of things out there to help. And so as some background, I work on more of the financial and operational side with startups. And so I often get asked this question. And there's so much out there that can help with that. So right from the very start, when you're incorporating your company, the services like Clerky that can help you do that, that creates very standard paperwork that all the YC startups use. There are services like Gusto that you can use to help you run payroll properly and make sure that you're withholding and paying taxes over. There's services like Ironclad, which helps you store all your NDAs and sales contracts all in the same place. So there's loads of resources out there to help you. And I think it's really important that those are the things that you shouldn't be trying to reinvent the wheel. You know, use all your brainpower to figure out your product and to figure out how you're going to make your company grow. With all of these other things, that's not going to make your company a success. So just do the basic, simple, vanilla option and move on to other things. So on that note, is there anything that you find really early stage founders wasting a lot of time on that you wish they would just like automate and move on? Or just are there any specific things that you wish founders would spend less time on early on? So for me, it's things like they try to come up with funky voting structures or weird vesting schedules, or they're trying to protect themselves from some unknown company that's going to come in and steal all their ideas. And those kind of things you just don't need to worry about in the early days. Just keep it all simple and concentrate on everything else, because as you start to grow, if other things come up and need to be fixed, you can afford to pay lawyers at that point and they can help you fix them. Anything else? I'd add to that being secretive and trying to protect your idea. Sometimes I meet founders who think they have this like secret idea and the idea is super valuable. And if they tell anyone, they'll create 100 copycats. And in fact, the more common problem as a startup is that you'll tell your idea to 100 people and all of them will kind of shrug their shoulders and be like, yeah, whatever. And so as a startup, in most cases, you should be like telling your idea to literally anyone who will sit and listen, because they might have some valuable piece of feedback. Do you have thoughts on how people should think about competition beyond that? I think you should be highly aware of it and what they're doing. And sometimes they are doing some things right. And when they are failing, you shouldn't assume that they're incompetent. They're probably really smart people. In fact, they came up with the same idea as you did. So, you know, I think, again, just be aware of what they're doing, track what they're doing. But don't follow them and don't assume that when they do something wrong that that's a bad idea. You know, there's a lot that goes into execution. And sometimes, you know, a good idea is just badly executed. And so, yeah, just follow, but don't copy necessarily. So, is it more important to move fast or perfect your product? Talk to us a little bit about perfection. So I'll take a crack at that. Sometimes when we do office hours, founders ask us these binary questions like, you know, should we grow really fast or should we make a lot of money? Or like, should I hire 100 people or should I, you know? And the point is, they want us to give them an answer. Like, it's like this binary thing. And what's so frustrating is 99.9% of the time when we're in office hours and founders are pushing us for a binary answer, the answer is like, well, you know, both. You know, people always say, well, should I be focusing on the product or growing faster? And it's like, well, both. And unfortunately, that is how most of life is. It's a lot of gray area and you're going to have to do the impossible. And so that particular question, we're all chuckling because we're used to hearing that sort of thing. And whenever we hear that, it's someone kind of asking for permission to not work on the thing they don't want to work on. Right. And unless, you know, unless I'm really feeling sorry for them, usually I don't give them permission to, you know, not, oh, don't worry. Don't work on the product. Who cares if your product is good? Just keep growing. You know, that's, I think that's what they want to hear. Um, and so if you find yourself with these kinds of dichotomies, right, if you're like, should I be working on revenue or should I be doing what I'm passionate about? You know, if you, if you're trapped in these sorts of, um, chains of thought, I think it's always good to try to zoom out and, and, and realize that life is not black and white. And these are not usually zero sum decisions. And that if you're, uh, get to the root of what you're concerned about or where you're trying to solve for and realize that you kind of, you always have to do both. Let me add one thing. If, if you have a retention problem with your product, if only 10% of your people are returning on a monthly basis, don't spend a lot of time on PR, right? So don't try to grow super fast. If people aren't sticking around, focus on, focus on the product, but focus on your, your real problem, which is retention before you go try to tell the world. The very similarly, the one, one rule I, I tell a lot of people is like, everyone wants to know, should I keep growing fast or, you know, should I work on the product and make it really good? It's, I think, you know, in the early days acquiring users, um, is shows that this is something people want. You should continue to do that, but you should always have this metric where, or this like threshold, um, usually it's something like retention or it's NPS or something and continue growing fast. But once it gets below a certain point, like stop and really focus on the product and why people are not retaining, why the NPS is so low and don't even focus on growth at all. So for a startup that's recently launched, what would you consider a good growth rate? I, when I talk to startups, um, and I try to give them a rule of thumb around growth, what I try to tell them is like what I look for when I read a YC application. And basically what I look for is how long have you been working on this project and am I impressed with what you've done? And so the growth rate is very, very dependent on a business. Um, and different businesses have very different growth rates. I still think a better way of thinking about it is that like if you had to be super intellectually honest with yourself about how fast you're moving and how much progress you're getting in the amount of time that you've had to work on this compared to other people. That's a good way to kind of start figuring out, oh, am I impressive? What am I doing is impressive. Um, and I think that like having us reduce that to like 7% or 15% is like not really going to be that helpful for you. So this might, uh, be a good segue to the question, like what do you look for when you're reading a YC application? And, uh, the, another question that came up was, you know, what do you look for when you're interviewing the companies? In reading the applications, I look for, do they have unique insight on how they're going to acquire customers? Um, and there, I mean, there are many factors, but that's the one thing I look for. Um, and then in terms of interview, it's how can they communicate their ideas in a, you know, very brief manner such that I understand it. If you spend the entire 10 minutes of the interview trying to tell us what you do, that's really a bad sign that you don't really understand the product quite yet. Yeah. I think my biggest thing when reading, um, an application or evaluating a founder is to be biased towards people that are action oriented and actually do stuff. Um, a very large percentage of people that have startups haven't done anything. They haven't made a thing. They haven't given the thing to other people and their application is basically asking for permission from us as authority figures to let them work on their startup so they can quit their job or whatever. And on the other hand, you have folks like Usman we talked about earlier that, Hey, I've shipped the service. I've given it to real people. Here's what we figured out. Here's our website. You can click on it. We have customers. And the more someone, the more there's evidence that someone is action oriented as opposed to conceptual in their approach to startups, um, that is highly correlated with success across the board. And so that'd be my advice to everyone on this. Like, well, how do we think about what YC looks at? I mean, if you have evidence that you've made a thing and given the thing to people and gotten money for the thing that you made, that makes your application 10 X better than spending more time, um, you know, rewriting your pros to seem a little fancier or something. There's all these things. People spend a lot of time on their application and actual evidence of action is infinitely better than, you know, getting better camera angles or something. And in your video, you know, there's a lot of things like people have all these tricks they try to do. And those are much easier to just like do your startup and make progress on it. That's, that would be my suggestion. I think the other thing that people often ask about this is, is they, they think we have kind of a checklist that says, Oh, if they have 10% growth and they have revenue and they have this, then great. They're in. And that's, that's not how it works. It's, it's a balance of a number of different things and a lot, a number of different things that we're looking for. And so it's very difficult to say, you know, this is, this is what makes a successful application in terms of concrete things. It's much more about, can you concisely explain your idea? Can you, can we get to the end of the application and we actually understand what the company is doing, which you'd be surprised at how many applications we don't. Um, and so it's, it's much softer things than, than just being able to say, yes, I've achieved this specific thing. For me, what's helpful is if you don't bury the lead, um, you know, we're humans and we have to read literally hundreds of applications. So like, don't wait for the last question, the application to say, and we have 150,000 users, we're making $2 million in revenue a month and growing 50% month over month. Like, like let's, you can knock that out probably into the, like, what does my company do? It's like, it does this and, um, and then I think the second thing is that, um, I think a lot of these things actually service filters. Like what I would say is like, you should apply. The only way you know, you're going to get into YC is if you apply and it doesn't cost anything and it's open and it's pretty easy. I would say like the software is good. So, um, just apply like the number of founders who tell us that even in the not getting in answering those questions helps them build their business is so high. So you should never hear any of these answers and say, oh, that means that I shouldn't apply to YC. Um, even if you think you're a single non-technical co-founder with a horrible idea and you haven't quit your job, apply and roll the dice. You know, you don't need to know us. You don't need an intro. You don't need a warm intro. Um, just apply on our website. There's a link, not the vast, vast, vast majority. I don't know the status down my head of people we have no contact with whatsoever. Yeah. And 40%, I know the startups who funded in the last batch had never had a single touch point with YC. Like they haven't come to any events. They've never exchanged an email with a partner or an alumni. And it's, um, and it's kind of cool. I mean, it's unlike other, you know, VC funding type situations where you need the warm intro. You have the ability to just apply and it's, and it's free and it's open to anyone. The thing that I think a lot of us tell a lot of people who are thinking about applying is that the application is very simple. The questions are very simple and it's actually a really good way to think about your business. It's a good framework. Um, and so if, even if, even if you don't, I mean, just, just fill out the questions and I think it'll actually help you, um, think about your product and business better. So, um, a question that always comes up and that came up today is at what point should a company apply? Is there like an optimal time in the life cycle of a company? Keep on applying. I think, I think there's two things here. I think people, people use this as an excuse to not apply because their company is too early or their company is too late. And they're like, Oh, I can't possibly apply to Y Combinator. And that's not true. There, there is no too early and there is no too late. We can be helpful to companies at all different stages. Um, and you know, this, this also comes back to the, the, should you polish your, your product a little bit more? It, it, it doesn't matter. You know, we can, we can help you at any stage. And the other thing to bear in mind is if you do apply and you're not successful first time round, then no problem, you know, apply again. Um, there's no, there's no black marks against you for doing that. There's, there's no problems with that. So just even if you're a little bit early to the first time, six months of more working on the company could totally change things. Just to put facts on that, in the last batch of a hundred companies, there was a company that literally didn't, or multiple companies that didn't start writing code until two weeks before their application was submitted. There was a company that had a $40 million revenue run rate and they, and everyone in between, and they all got tons of value out of YC. So everyone is probably somewhere between those two points. And to add a final stat to that question, out of the a hundred companies in the last batch of YC, about 50 of them had previously applied and been rejected and they were being accepted on their second, third, fourth application. So apply, apply twice. I was, I was on a panel with a bunch of alumni and, and the question came up from the audience and literally everyone, all the alumni on the panel had applied more than once. It was like, I applied four times or three times. And I was like, Whoa, interesting. Um, and so we're, you know, getting to the last few minutes. So, um, I kind of wanted to go down the lines and ask, is there anything you wish you'd known when you first got, were getting started? Um, any particularly helpful advice that you got or would like to pass on? Or someone can volunteer if you're thinking. Sure. I'll, I'll start. Um, I wish someone had told me, uh, it was as rewarding as it ended up being. Right. I just kind of did it cause it sounded like it was interesting and I was passionate about the idea, but looking back on having started several companies, uh, it. Unbelievably rewarding because it's so hard, uh, and to get through it and be successful at it, uh, on money, many different levels. Um, you know, just look back at, as, as some of the best experiences of my life. All right. Okay. Um, I wished, um, someone told me, um, to let go of, uh, let go of, uh, being in the nitty gritty so much. Cause when you're starting to, especially like for myself, I went through four to like three or four years of just nothingness. And so I was always the one coding and building the product. Um, and then as my company started scaling up fast, I cut, I didn't let go of that stuff fast enough. Um, so I think there's a lot to learn in terms of scaling a company and when you should, you know, what you should be managing and what your priorities should be. Um, and, um, yeah, I wish I learned that faster. Um, I wish I had asked for more time to do that. Yeah, I wish I had asked for more time. Um, and, um, yeah, I wish I had learned that faster. Um, I wish I had asked for more help and when I started my first company, I was 21 and, uh, I dropped out of college to do it and I'd never actually had like a real job before. So I only had this sort of like dim understanding of how companies actually worked on the inside, gleaned maybe from TV shows and, um, all of a sudden I was managing like 30 people and I had no idea how to do it. And I actually felt like very isolated and alone and I didn't know who to ask for, for help. And, uh, I've learned since then that particularly in Silicon Valley, um, people aren't incredibly willing to help even if there's like no, even if there isn't anything apparently in it for them, they'll just help you just because. And so I really wish I had just asked like lots of people for help. Best piece of advice I got was, um, actually this guy named Gideon, you yelling at us and telling us that we were stupid. We had got Justin TV profitable and we actually were making a couple million dollars a month, a year, sorry, in profit. And we were kind of sitting back and patting ourselves on the back and Gideon said, um, you've built something that's useless. It will fade from the internet in the next three years and nothing you've done will ever be known ever again. Um, and, uh, after we kind of like picked up our egos, we started thinking about new things to build and, uh, a couple of them worked out. So, um, yeah, that's probably the best piece of advice I got like to don't rest on your laurels. Yeah, I think my piece of advice is just, um, to watch out for cargo culting on a lot of the aspects of startup culture that you may or may not agree with. I think a lot of people have all these ideas about how they're supposed to act or they're supposed to go to meetups and you're supposed to go to this and you're supposed to hang out and you're supposed to network. And, um, you don't have to do any of that stuff. Like that's totally not, if anything, that can be a signal of being distracted from your startup. And instead I would suggest the way to think about this is in most jobs in life, you have to conform to someone else's, you know, culture or someone else's company. You get to control every aspect of things. If you're designing your own job, you get to choose who you work with. You get to choose what your work style is like. You get to choose your hours. You get to choose what you're actually even working on. And so you should open your mind to creating an entire reality that really serves your needs and your passions and what makes you happy. And not this cargo cult idea of like, Hey, I read in this blog post that, you know, 14 of the most successful founders all, you know, went to Stanford or whatever that thing is, just write your own damn story, right? Like stop reading all these blog posts about how to be like famous people and like do it your own way. And I just, that's really my encouragement when I talk to people that are, that are sometimes get lost in reading too much advice to remember that this is your story and you're going to do it your own way versus just like aping whatever you've read, you know, in the popular press. So that's my advice to you. I think my advice is that, you know, when you hear about people talking about startups all the time, they're always killing it, they're always growing, they're always hiring people and that's actually not reality. And so I think, you know, finding yourself some, some trusted people that you can go to and say, things aren't going so well. I'm finding this a little bit tough or, you know, things, things aren't quite working how I want them to work. And all right, you don't have to broadcast that to the entire world. But if you have, if you have a few people that you can actually talk to about that, whether it's other founders or whether it's a couple of your investors or whoever it might be, that can actually really help to take a load off so that you can feel like you're not constantly acting and you're not constantly having to be there. I'm the startup founder who, where everything's going fantastically well for. Thank you. Thank you. I think all of us are going to be out in the sunken garden for the reception. So if you have any particular questions for us, you can come up and just ask us in person. And so I wanted to take this opportunity to give a couple of thank yous out. I wanted to thank all the people that were involved with making this happen, all the partners, all the staff. A huge thank you to Dominique, who runs events for YC, and Tom, who got the Wi-Fi working, and Jared, who built a lot of the software for us, and Stephen, and everyone else. And then also thank you to all of you for coming. It's a huge pleasure to get to meet you and to get to hear what you guys are working on. A big thank you to the startups who came up here and did office hours today and pitched practice. It takes a lot of grit. They were all really great sports. And so there is a reception right outside until 7 at the sunken garden. And we will see you there. Thank you. Thank you.