What are the most common mistakes you have seen growth founders make? Probably the most common mistake or category of mistakes is due to the fact that sometimes founders don't realize that their job description changes when they go from a smaller company, you know, 10, 20 people who are just, you know, everyone's jamming and trying to like build out the product, to a company that's 50, 100, 200 people. The job description of a founder CEO changes dramatically as a company changes. And said simply, in the first phase, it's really just about building a product. And, you know, the company's only going to succeed if the product, you know, finds product market fit. And so, in most cases, the CEOs are involved in building the product, designing the product, selling the product, demoing the product to customers, et cetera, all of the above. And unless you're doing all of that, like you're probably not doing the right thing. You're not supposed to be specializing or worrying too much about like, you know, leadership and, you know, building a team, et cetera. Like phase one is all about, you know, building a product that people love and getting an early enthusiastic group of adopters. And it's all hands on deck. And the CEO is just sort of one among many, the first among many when it comes to like building, selling, designing, supporting the product that you have. But as the company grows and you get to this growth stage, so call it 50, 100 employees. At that stage, the company needs real leadership. So, the CEO's job shifts away from doing to leading. And so, you have to transition from, you know, doing less, you know, you shouldn't probably be answering support tickets anymore, or being the only person who demos the product to customers, or being the primary salesperson, or being the person writing a bunch of code. And that transition is hard psychically for someone who maybe is really great at writing code and now really shouldn't be doing it anymore. It's also sometimes jarring to the company where like, wow, you used to be the biggest code committer and now you're not writing any more code. What do you do? But the sort of, at the growth stage, the unique job of a CEO is to build the company. If in stage one, it's to build a product, in stage two, it's to build a company. And so, as I mentioned, like, you know, building a management team and making sure those people work together, establishing the strategy and alignment around that, and worrying about culture and nurturing that. Those are the characteristics of the job description for phase two. And it's hard to make that transition. So, where I see people go wrong, or when you have bumpy times, often it's because a CEO doesn't understand that their job needs to change. They grasp things they shouldn't do, and they become a bottleneck to decision making and action, you know, for the company. Probably the second biggest mistake I see has to do with mistakes in hiring, and either it being rushed or forced, or decisions that are made that end up not working out and setting the company back. And those mistakes are often made because hiring decisions are rushed, and the CEO is too involved in the doing to be able to step back and spend enough time recruiting and getting to know executives. That, I think, is the highest correlate to executive hires that don't work out. So, I would say those are the two biggest sort of patterns that I see.