The real product market fit. Not that the other ones aren't great. I often talk to founders who believe they've found product market fit when they haven't. This is a huge problem because they start hiring people, increasing burn, and optimizing their product before they've actually discovered what needs to be built. To start, read Marc Andreessen's On Product Market Fit for Startups. It has been the single most influential post for me as an entrepreneur, and it was the first time I ever read the term. Here's how he defines the term. The customers are buying the product just as fast as you can make it, or usage is growing just as fast as you can add more servers. Money from customers is piling up in your company checking account. And customers support staff as fast as you can. So why do most people think they're there when they're not? One, it's intellectually convenient, too. I think that a lot of founders are really excited at the prospect of company building. And they think that company building is what creates success. They have a great culture, and getting an office, and having management, and so on and so forth. And they are not real with themselves that the real challenge is to solve the problem. And the company building happens for the most part after you figure out how to solve the problem, not before. I hear this term product market fit so often. And I have to tell you, 98% of the time it's used incorrectly. What's so frustrating is that people almost act like it's an undefined or flexibly defined term. And it's totally not. It's like saying, green, blue, yellow, we could call all of those orange. It's okay, we'll just call them orange. It's different for every company. So I think the most common way it's mistaken is, it's weird because it sounds so close, but it's not. I built the thing that customers want. And what's hilarious is product market fit is what happens after you've built the things that customers want. It turns out the only way you know you've built something that customers want is because people want to separate these two concepts. You can see intellectually why. It's just so much easier to be able to look at your thing and say, this is what customers want. And not have to really have any customers. It's easier to say that. There aren't that many customers, in which case you don't have a big business. I think the awful reality is the vast majority of founders, the vast majority of YC founders even, never find product market fit ever. I would argue that more acquisitions than you might know are of companies that did not find product market fit. Once you find product market fit, I almost say it's your company to fuck up. It's almost like, this is going to work unless you screw it up. Whereas pre-product market fit, there's all this stuff you need to do to even see if there can be something there, and you really don't know. Pre-product market fit, you can actually do great and never have anything. When I go from zero customers to one customer, I've not hit product market fit. I think that Mark does a good job of defining it because it's experiential. It's like, is the growth killing you? If I were to extract the meaning of this sentence, is the growth almost killing you, and is it profitable? People always want to forget the second one, money is piling up in the check account. They're scaling negative margins. They're saying, hey Craig, how about you pay 75 cents and I give you a dollar worth of value? Craig would make that trade 17 times an hour. I love the PV quote where it's like they figure it out before you. The customer is a nose for those types of deals. Because if you have the problem, you really understand the value of the solution. Oftentimes founders will want to try to reduce this. I get this question so often. Should I optimize for retention or should I optimize for profitability? My answer is always the same, yes. What makes you think that building a successful company is a single variable problem? How could that be the case? Yes, it's clearly not the case. There's clearly multiple variables here. One of the things we try to talk to people, often if you're charging a customer, we try to talk to you about revenue. What percentage of your revenue are you losing every month? How much does it cost you to get that revenue? How satisfied are your customers? You need to know those other stats to really know. I talk about pre-product market fit as just being in the suck. You're not enjoying your life. Every startup, I almost imagine, there's a predetermined amount of time you have to live there until you figure out how to get out. A lot of founders just want to cheat. I just want to do something that's going to be unprofitable so I can pretend to be out of here. You have to be so passionate about the people you're working with and or the problem that you're solving that you are comfortable failing at it for a while. In the course of four months, got 16 million downloads. Got one eighth of every single person on Facebook to watch at least one video on our platform over the course of three to four months. Wouldn't that be almost the definition of product market fit? Absolutely not. For our product, one, we had no monetization. Two, more importantly, we had horrible retention. Absolutely horrible retention. If you came and downloaded the app, five more videos that week, very low. It was interesting because we had an exit. We had tons of growth. We, for a while, were top five in the app store, yet not product market fit. Let's think, 10. We started in 2006. We made $8 million in revenue, $1 million in profit with approximately 30 million monthly viewers on the product. It is hard. The reason why, for the Justin.TV case, was that we didn't have a repeatable engine to create growth. We couldn't make that number go up. We weren't able to reliably monetize that over time. It's funny, because I can't imagine how many pitches that I gave trying to present that as a good business, when in my heart I knew it wasn't a good business. We didn't have a repeatable machine that both spit out more users and more money and retention. What was so interesting is that we'd solved all the technology problems at Justin.TV. Clearly the market does not care what you have behind the hood. We never could have done it without that stuff, but it was not sufficient at all. It took six years for us to have a hint that that's what the customer base was. It was interesting. We had people, we had all the technology we needed, we had money because we were running profitably. The table was set, and then bam, the food arrived. Everyone was seated, the table was set, bam, the food arrived, the meal happened. We sent invites out, no one cared. If you started Twitch in 2006, it probably wouldn't have worked. I don't think it would have worked in 2006. Silly little things matter. One of them was webcams. Little things like that can change things. Had we been talking to our users more, we could have gotten there sooner. I think we could have gotten there by 2008, 2009, but we didn't die. It's a separate thing, probably a separate essay, but learning when you should have quit, maybe. Some people hold on to things. Some people hold on to things, it's funny. I see it two ways. We weren't really doing well, but it just took even longer than we did. If you're willing to put in the time and grind it out, every year you don't not die, your chances of being successful go up. If you're willing to put in the time and grind it out, every year you don't not die, your chances of being successful go up. If you're willing to put in the time and grind it out, every year you don't not die,