Users you don't want. This one was contagious. Yeah, this was fun. Let's bring it back. Alright. When you're just getting started, many startups will take every user they can get. They have a strong idea of a problem, and they want to attract as many users with that problem as possible. Unfortunately, when you open up the barn doors, you get all sorts of people with all sorts of problems. Some of them will try to hijack your product to solve a problem you didn't intend to solve. By and large, these hijackers are users you do not want. When has this happened to you? I mean, Justin.TV was by definition hijacked. Like, we built a product to allow people to live stream their lives, and within a year it was being used to stream copyrighted content around the world. Like, absolutely the definition of a hijacked product. And what's interesting is that I'm a little afraid of my phrasing here. I wish I didn't say that these hijack users are not users you want, because it turns out that sometimes they are. It turns out that the reason why we even had an inkling to do Twitch was because some percentage of the hijacked users were video gamers. And it turns out that that could have been a much bigger community if we helped it, and then eventually it became one. So this kind of, like, users using your product for a whole variety of things, I like to think about it more on a spectrum. Like, there's the user who's using your product as intended. Great, makes you feel good. Maybe there's a business there, maybe there isn't. There's users using your product in interesting ways with potential. Study those users. Those users are very important. There are users who are using your product with ways that it's extremely clear to you that there isn't long-term value, even if there is short-term value. I'd argue that those were the copyrighted streamers on Justin.TV. There was short-term value because we could monetize with ads, And then there are hijack users. I'd argue those are users who are using your product, and they're creating no value, and they're probably actively decreasing your value. They're harming your network. And for us, that would be people like, some people streamed pretty horrible things on Justin.TV, and that was not good. What's interesting is that now when I talk to startups at YC, they don't know how to recognize these hijack users, and just kick them out. No one talks about these people. They always talk about everyone before them. Those are users that have some value. And I'm talking about the hijack users. If you can identify the hijack users, you need to kick them out. They're going to hurt you more than they're going to help you. I think this is important. It's not that the hijack users have bad intentions, even. They can. Some do. But some, it's just they want to use your product to do what they want to do, and that is literally going to hurt your business. There are some things that if people do it on your platform, it hurts your business. It takes up all of the customer support time. It depends on how much revenue they're generating. I'd argue that if they are generating enough revenue to justify that support time, great. If you have a free product, not so much. Especially if you're not learning. If they're taking up a bunch of your support time, but you're learning, and you're actually improving your product because of it, great. I'll give you a hypothetical example off the top of my head. Imagine that in the beginning of Airbnb, someone wanted to use Airbnb to host drug parties, illegal drug parties, crack parties. They thought of these Airbnbs as mobile crack dens. Let's think about this for a second. Well, they are paying. They're paying for the big apartments. They're paying for the nice places. They've got money. Interesting. On the other hand, they're probably destroying those apartments, doing something highly illegal, getting the police called on them. These are hijack users. They feel some positive, but if there's way too much negative, it's not worth the positive. That's actually where I see a lot. I actually see it a lot where it's like the hijack user's paying. So you feel bad. Because when the hijack user's not paying, usually you feel less bad kicking them out. When they're paying, you're like, yeah, right, oh my God. This is stuff. You end it in a nice, clean way by saying, by focusing on solving one problem really well, you're betting on making a small amount of people very happy. If you let any user that walks in the door, the product roadmap, you're going to end up doing a shitty job There's this spectrum of potentially useful users. My whole goal is don't let the hijack users steer your product roadmap. It's really totally okay if you want to explore some of those use cases that are not the use case that you thought, that are still use cases that could be good for you. Then it's totally okay to explore, to experiment, so on and so forth. But don't let the crack den guys on Airbnb control the product roadmap for Airbnb and suggest the features that they want. It's not where you want to go. At the end of the day, you have to have some opinion about your product. You can't just be like, I don't know, the market's going to take it wherever, the customers take it wherever.