Let's, I'm going to sit here. Oh, okay. Right there. Come over here. All right. Well, we'll just get into this because I have a whole list of questions and see how many we'll get through. Um, so I'm going to selfishly ask a question because I'm very interested. When you started VMware, it was in the late, late nineties, but a very exciting time. How many were any of you in Silicon Valley in 98? Raise your hand. Okay. We got some hands. We got some hands. I want to hear more about it. I want to hear what, what was Silicon Valley like and sort of how did you get started with VMware? Yeah. Well, the way it was interesting, the way I got started, I was, um, I co-founded VMware with my husband as a professor at Stanford and he was doing research and he had, he had sent me an email. I was actually the one startup I didn't mention I was working on at the time. And, um, he sent me this mail, uh, because I, I was a sort of a advisor to that. So I never counted, but, um, it actually went public, but, but anyhow, um, I was, uh, he got this email from all these people up at Microsoft about a paper that was supposedly under blind review. And I'm like, oh man, you really got to get a patent filed here. And, um, and then I'm like, you know, this is just so valuable, your research, we should take it to market. And, and, and, and then we kind of did it with our grad students and we weren't really, you know, it turned out it was just, we did this thing and it was right at the beginning of the .com era and there was pets.com and webband.com and, and, uh, you know, these companies that were raising huge amounts of money. And I can remember I went to some party and I'm talking to this guy and he's like, what do you do? And I'm like, well, we're building this software that you can put on your machine, it'll let you run multiple, you know, it'll multiplex all the resources. And he just looked at me and he goes, this is hopeless, you know, and, and like, you really got it. It seemed like a dubious idea. Dubious. In fact, I couldn't even get a PR firm to come and work with us, um, because it was all about thinking big and this whole .com thing. And it was, um, it wasn't that hard to get engineers because we were such deep technology, they understood what we did, but, but getting business side people was pretty much impossible. And so companies were just sort of getting slapped together and going public. Well, I don't know if they were slapped together, but they were going public right and left. That's for sure. Yeah. Um. In fact, the company that I advised that went public, I was stunned. Did you have any equity? I did. I, I, that was bizarre. So, so then did your husband, how did, tell me how you got started specifically with VMware. Did he say, okay, come on board now as like we're making. Well, it was me. I was like, I think you should do a company and, and, um, I said, I'll help you. And, and, uh, famous last words. And then I found out I was pregnant. And I said, look, I really, I'll get it going. But then I, you know, I'm, I was about to have our second kid and I was like, can't do a startup and, uh, and, and I, and then we had his two grad students that were going to join us. And, and so I said, I better tell them I'm going to have a baby. And I did. And they were like, so, and, and so I'm like, okay, so we did it. And then six months into it, I had my baby. And it was kind of cool because we didn't have any customers and we were in this little building that you could open the windows. And so I just brought my baby to work and hung out with her in like a little bassinet or something. Yeah. Where was the, I was the office in down. Oh, it's funny. It was, you know, yeah. You know, near town and country, there's a carwash. Yeah. So it was right behind there and, um, uh, healthy on, I've been there before and they moved out and they called it the crack house because people were doing drug deals right next to your baby. And, um, but it was, uh, it's the building is not there any longer. So did you then, did you fundraise for VMware early on or how did that work? Cause I'm interested in what fundraising was like back in, well, you know, um, so I'd made money from the extreme, the video, the streaming video company from Microsoft. And I always delighted in telling Steve Ballmer and whatnot that, um, they paid for the extreme because they didn't, it wasn't really a great company for them because we got in between Intel and Microsoft, um, in the stack. So we disintermediated them a little bit. And so, um, but anyhow, so we had money. So we, what we did was we did our friends and family and we only allowed friends and immediate family to do a seed fund and then, and I held back on how much I put in to kind of be fair to, you know, all the founders. And then we said, okay, let's do an outside just to get some credibility and, and this is sort of advice I've always giving people is you want to find investors that really deeply understand what you're doing. And so, and, and you want to get rich people that deeply understand what you're doing. And so that's what we did. We got Andy Bechtolsheim and a few other people, people, John Hennessy. So how did you get, did you know Andy, like, well, we kind of knew him. We were a bunch of, um, you know, pretty deep engineers and, you know, we were kind of knew the, knew the engineers and Andy's really a phenomenal engineer and, and David, his partner, David Sheridan was a professor at Stanford that I windsurfed with. He was my windsurfing buddy. And, and so we just called them up and we told them what we were doing. And yeah, they were seed investors in Google too. Yeah. And, and, uh, and it took an hour because they, they, they got it. They're like, whoa. Yeah. So was it kind of like that famous Google story where Andy wrote the hundred thousand dollar check and said, here you go. Yeah. We got 300,000. Oh, even better story. That is so great. Yeah. He did. He said, you know, I got the checkbooks at my house and he's like, I'm going to leave it, you know, like, um, in my driveway, you know, and I got his address and I'm like, is this his house? And it was like newspapers all over the driveway. Like he hadn't even been there. I'm like, is this really the right hand? There was the envelope. Oh my God. Sorry. I live for this stuff. All these random little details make things so colorful. Um, so then you, you stayed on after the birth of your daughter. Yeah. It was working so well and, and I was having fun and I convinced my mother to come live with me. Part of the village to raise. To help with my daughter. But I, and I brought her with me as long, in fact, she was raised, she's like the same age as VMware, really interesting. And so I can always remember how old VMware is and, and, and, uh, I just brought her everywhere. Like when we got more advanced and started having customers and partners all over the, you know, selling all over the world, uh, she went all over the world with me and then I would just, um, stay at a really high end hotel and have them hire a really high end nanny to take care of her and take her around. She just loved it. Oh wow. I can imagine. A really high end hotel. Um, okay, so things are, are going, looking back on VMware, what, were there any mistakes that you made there that you said, gosh, for my next startup, I'm going to be sure not to do this. I'm always interested in mistakes. Well, I think the biggest mistake I made was getting, you know, feeling like it was selfish of me to not sell, you know, cause everybody else wanted to. And I, I was like, thought it was your co-founders or my co-founders wanted to sell and, and I thought it would be selfish not to, although they would have thanked me had I not. But in hindsight, I'm actually really glad that I ended up leaving VMware because I, I probably wouldn't have left and I had several years with my kids just home with them that I really valued, but, um, which I might not have gotten. After it was acquired. After, afterwards. Yeah. Did your investors want you to sell? Were you the only one that wanted to keep going? Well, we didn't have VCs. So no, we didn't have VCs. So I took money after, after we took the money from Andy and David, um, and John, we, uh, we raised money from Dell and, and, um, from Dell and, and a few banks that were wanting to take us public. Okay. So you were really in control of things. Like we were totally, totally in control, which is obviously the kind of place without having to do the 10 to one, um, so then 10 to one voting rights, you had some time with your kids and then you joined the board of Google. Yeah, right after I left VMware, I joined the board of Intuit and, and then a few years later I joined the board of Google. Yeah. Okay. So I'm curious, being on these boards of these super successful companies, in addition to running your own super successful company, what kind of things did they have in common or not in common that, that make them? I wouldn't say too many companies have much in common with Google. Yeah, that's true. Well, what is it about? Um, but anyhow. Some things about each other. Yeah. But people. Not the people. That's what, I mean, certainly in Silicon Valley, everybody focuses on the people and, and so maybe it's just across all of Silicon Valley and, um, but those are, you know, Intuit and Google, you know, it's funny, they had Bill Campbell in common kind of, but they were so different, the board meetings and everything. And were you the only female board? No. Google, uh, when I joined had, and still does, Shirley Tillman, who's president of, not anymore, but she was president of Princeton. And then Ann Mather, who was, who still is chair of the audit committee, phenomenal board member. And so I'm, I'm the third woman to join that board, which is, it makes a huge difference to have three instead of two. Um, we actually, you know, have conversations in the bathroom. That's probably very rare. Um, okay. So in 2012, you started Bebop and you were very much in stealth mode, right? If I remember, I was saying like, what are you working on? Yeah, well, because it was such a big, ambitious, open, you know, sort of investigation. I saw no reason and there was too much interest. Hmm. Yeah. Everyone wanted to know what Diane Greene was working on. So what, what made you, how'd you come up with the idea? What made you want to work on this and sort of how did that one? Well, I had actually been trying to convince anybody that would listen that they should go start a company to do what Bebop did. Sounds very familiar. My husband is like that. Yeah. I just like, I really thought, you know, this layer of the stack where you build the applications for the enterprise, you know, cause it's so much more complicated where you have multiple users and access controls and it's really hard to do it well. And I was like, it really needs some attention. And I kept, that was sort of the vision. So you were bugging other people like, this is great. You really should focus on this. There's a need. So you saw this need and did you finally say, well, if no one else is, I'm going to. Well, then the co-founder I found, a professor at Stanford, he was like, yeah, let's just do it. And I'm like, well, okay, if you'll do it, I guess I'll do it. And then he didn't stay. And then he bailed. And then, then I, but your husband. Like, thanks a lot. Wasn't your husband? Well, no, he didn't. He came in after I'd been kind of working on it for a while, a couple of years. So you were like a solo founder. Well, then I convinced some of my friends from VMware to come in and I said, oh, why don't, we'll just call you a founder. Okay. So what, what was it about this? They were great people and they're still there. And you had worked with them before. Yeah. Just the common people. Had that relationship. Yeah. So what was it that you, that made you think this is an important thing that needs to be working? What was missing currently? Why? What was, there weren't good solutions out there? Well, like, have you ever used some of the. No, no, no. Has anybody ever used enterprise software? I mean, you know, it's, it's, you know, it's layers and layers of clicking through these screens, you know, where really like maybe you just talk to Slack. I mean, do you really have to, you know, it's just so convoluted and complex and, and for power users, you have to have all this rich functionality. But it doesn't have to be, you know, this, this layer of, of screens that, you know, like you can use machine learning and things and know what the person's trying to do and help them do it. And you can automatically fill in everything and, you know, you can just make it like when you're using it, you're just going, how did it know that's what I was about to do. And it just makes it there for you. And that's what you, you know, it's, it's just incredible what you can do today that is radically different from what, you know, back when we certainly, when we founded it, I think people are doing that now. I even think Google G suite is doing it. But you know, everybody's doing it more and more now. And especially the phone drove a lot of it because you, if you didn't do it on the phone, nobody was going to use it. But back then it was a lot worse. Yeah. So then what made you decide you're working on the super ambitious plan that you know is it's broken and you're going to, you're going to do this? What made you sell to Google? Well, so, so one thing was, there were a few things going on. One was that in terms of being on the alphabet board by then, no, it was still Google. It was just become, no, it was still the Google board. Anyhow, as part of my work on the Google board, I got involved in Google's cloud efforts. Just hey, Diane, can we ask you questions about, and so I, I really made very good friends with Urs Hussle, who is the guy that really, he's employee number eight at Google. He built all their, he's an amazing person and really enjoy, and I mean, I tell this, he lives near me. We started walking our dogs every Saturday. We became very good friends and talked about, and it was just fascinating. So that was good. And then I was getting to learn all about Google's technology and, and the AI and the machine learning and the, you know, just everything that Google has, the maps and the knowledge graphs and so forth. And I realized that if you combine that with what Bebop was doing, it would be pretty special. So they were, so, and I was busy kind of helping them find someone to come in and run Google cloud and, and we worked really hard on that and. Sounds like it. No, I gave them so many names. I'm like, this is the person, you know, and, and cause I really wasn't interested at all. And how did they convince you then? And then I just started, what was a combination of Bebop, both things kind of, but anyhow, the last person I thought they were going to hire, I thought the person was great. They decided not to, they're, I thought maybe they weren't Googley enough or something. It was in Heinz, anyhow, so, so at that point I, I just said, okay, if we can make this work for Bebop and I talked to everybody at Bebop, you know, to make sure they would be okay with it and yeah, we had just raised a lot of money from A16Z and Mark had joined my board. Oh my God. Yeah. Were they supportive? Yeah. I mean, they weren't that thrilled, but, but they weren't going to, but they certainly respected what we wanted to do and, and it's, and it has worked out super well. And I have to say, I'm glad I did it. The cloud is like, it's really interesting. Yeah. Tell me about what it's like running, running this, the cloud. So I, I mean, for me being in the enterprise for so long and, and seeing what's happening in the cloud is, is, it's just, I mean, I, VMware was like a big sort of mini revolution. This is like a giant revolution and everything. And the enterprise is just moving so fast and, and you know, everything's going to be in just a few, maybe four clouds or so, you know, there's not going to be that many of them because like we spend about 10 billion a year in infrastructure and so it's not going to get disrupted by a startup unless they invent quantum computing or something. But I mean, it's been invented, but they make it work, but we have a, we have a project to make it work too, but, but the, or make it, it works actually now, but it's hard to use. It's hard to program. Yeah. Like almost impossible. And, but it'll get there. I'm sorry to digress, but okay. So anyhow, it's just, you know, because we, you know, with mobile and being able to bring all the data together and have the security of the cloud, like, like our world, you know, you look at these ransomware attacks, I mean, we need more security and you're going to get it in the cloud. And you know, you look at something like, you know, you want your OS in the cloud updated constantly and tiny and monitored, you know, and, you know, it's, it's like Gmail, you know, we over 1.2 billion users, so we can see everything going on and respond immediately and we can be constantly vigilant and you just, you know, that kind of security you can get in the cloud isn't available to a company. And then, you know, the advanced technologies are there. So every, you know, everybody's going to move to the cloud. And then once you have that scale, what you can build because of what you're seeing is kind of revolutionary. So it's, it's fascinating. Oh, wow. We're running, we have one second, I have to ask one last question, even though we've just run out of time. If you could warn first time founders about a mistake that they're going to make, what might it be? I might not make any mistakes. Oh, everyone makes mistakes. Well, I don't like to say you're going to make a mistake. What's something they might learn the hard way that if you tell them about, maybe they'll try to avoid that. Well, one thing I was, I was listening to all these incredible answers that people were giving to this question. So one thing I didn't, and they were all great. The one thing I didn't hear people talk about was sort of board, your board of directors, which I think is, I mean, it can be something you manage, or it can be something that helps you. And, and you really want to try and have a board that you don't have to manage, but that helps you. Like at VMware, I was able to select my board. It's a, I can't, we don't have time to go into the story of how I did it, how I pulled it together. But I picked the people that really had the unique kind of expertise I wanted. And then my board meetings, I never wrote slides, I just wrote a document. And it, and it, it had a few metrics about how we were doing if, you know, we were doing well, but the whole rest of it was things I was worried about or trying to figure out. And so I had a board that I could trust so much that I could just say, look, here's the things I'm wrestling with. Let's talk about it. And I don't have to impress you at first with all this stuff. I never tried to impress any of them. Yeah. Okay. So the board, and how, so you, you, did you, are there any, is there any advice on selecting those people? It's just people- Well, like I'll give an example of what I did. You know, I decided, so because we sat between the Intel hardware and the Microsoft operating system, they were both monopolies. And so it was a little bit sobering. And so I'm like, wow, we got to do all these deals and we got to struggle with Intel and Microsoft and we were, and I wanted to do all these partnerships with the hardware vendor, big companies like IBM. So I thought I need someone that's really seen a lot of deals and knows how to structure a deal. And at the time, you know, Larry Suncini was the managing partner at Wilson Suncini. He was, I remember on the cover of American Lawyer or something as the ultimate power broker and everything. And he, I decided that was who I needed on my board. And we don't have time where I'd go into, it was a really, you know, fun little vignette when I got him to join my board, but you know, that was the example. So when I went into him, I just, I explained to him why I needed him and what I was doing. And why you were specifically- Because when I walked into his office and said, I wanted him on my board, he said, well, I'm pretty busy getting off boards. Oh, and there's a long story. But then I showed him how, what he knew how to do was unique. And he had no idea who I was and how, what I knew, what he knew was a unique fit to what I was trying to do. And you got him to say, yes, close the deal. Well, he's, it was really funny because he's like, okay, well, I'll think about it, you know, kind of thing. And it was a Friday late and I came in Monday morning and I got in at 7am and I, my phone was already, and I'd been in on Sunday. So my phone was lit up, you know, back then before cell phones. And I listened, he goes, hello, Diane, or I can't mimic him, but anyhow, he said, I'm inclined to join your board. And I'm like, what does inclined mean? And he goes, I'll join. Oh my gosh, that's great. Yeah. Oh, wow. We'll end on that happy note. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 