Wow, it is it is a good thing we close the show with Chase and Watsi. I am so proud that Y Combinator started accepting nonprofit applications and we could not have had a better inaugural nonprofit than Watsi. If any of you are starting a nonprofit or have friends who are, you all are just as welcome to apply to YC as you are would be with your for profit startups. Well, this is it. It's all over. Not totally over. We've got some mingling and some pizza afterwards. But before we get there, I have a couple announcements. One, Cameroon has lost four to zero. Yeah, it was not close. Unfortunately, Croatia were the victors. Now, in other news, this whole event, this was a first time effort here in New York. And I could not be happier. But I want all of you to let us know everyone who is on stage, please tweet at them with questions. You can tweet at Y Combinator. We're reading those. You can tweet at me at Alexis Ohanian. We want the feedback, because we want to keep doing this. We want to keep improving. And an event like this doesn't happen without the work of a lot of amazing people. So first, I want to thank all the speakers who came up here. I want to thank the startups because those startups, please. Yes, I will. I will clap through this. The these startups who came up here and presented they were just randomly chosen from the audience. Okay, so on top of all that pressure, they're just attendees just like all of you. I'm clapping for them. Yes. And, and finally, all the people here behind the scenes who made this work, all the people, the Best Buy, Theatre Rock, and the cameras, the sound and then everyone at Y Combinator and in particular, Tara, Irina, and Kat for putting on this amazing event. So please, thank you to all of you. Really made this, made this wonderful. And, and of course, to you all, you all made this great. And I hope that this is like I said, we'll clap. We should clap for you guys, too. That's Yes. Thank you. Like I said, please keep the feedback coming. Please keep the conversations coming. And remember, this isn't the last time this isn't gonna be the last startup school. In fact, we're doing one in London next month. If you guys fancy a trip across the pond, there'll be another one in the valley a few months from now. And we're actually having the first ever Y Combinator hackathon, which you can still apply to August 2nd and 3rd. Please go online apply if you want to come out to the valley. The pizza is not as good. But the hackathon should be a lot of fun. It's our first ever effort. And so finally, guys, again, thank you so much for coming out. Please keep the feedback coming. Please keep the conversations coming. And yes, there is pizza. And the best way to get it is through either one of these side exits. You will not be left behind. I guarantee there'll be a slice of pizza waiting for you. Thank you again. Thank you so much. Have a wonderful night.