Headline rip from the news is people looking at the corporate structure of open AI. Yep, and being like, oh This is an interesting. This is an instruction manual All right, welcome to Dalton post Michael today we're going to talk about How do you avoid innovating on the wrong? things so to set this up right we're in the Innovation economy. Oh, definitely, right. This is definitely your major innovation. It's right here in the economy That's what's happening. We encounter a lot of founders who believe that They need to take what I call innovation juice and spread it across Innovation juice what I'm trying to insult it and they have to spread it across every freaking problem They encounter and I think that there's only a limited amount of innovation energy that any company can have There's only so much juice. That's what you're saying It's like I set that up And we have maybe encountered some places where You should maybe just use the best practices. Yeah, here's what I think about this Making a startup work. Yep is a miracle. Yes. Yes and The fact that you got product market fit and made something people want you you literally performed a miracle to do that It is amazing. Yes, people would Or so, you know people would die to get where you got. Yep Now the odds that you were going to be able to perform five miracles at once Is much much much lower much lower. And so you want to focus the miracle juice on The single miracle which is making something people want and making a product, right? And so solving real customer problem and then all this other stuff. Yes. Yeah, just do best practices. Please don't innovate Like you don't Need to have a low likelihood of success miracle like you don't want to have to be right on these long shot bets Yes in five different ways. Yes, and I think it's interesting because I think that I Encounter some people who somehow are more religious About these side bets, right? It's like well, I'll only do a startup if I can locate it in bumble fuck nowhere, or I'll only do a startup if I get to do this weird corporate governance thing. Yeah, and I'm like What you're really saying is like I'll only serve my customer and help them with a really important problem in their life If I get this other random thing that the customer doesn't give two shits about Right, and it always kind of blows my mind It's like it's it's in some ways business is really about being selfless and like putting your customer first But it's like I'll only put my customer first if I get to locate this startup in New York, and I'm like That's obviously putting yourself I think let's start with the most common anti patterns We see sure right like what is the what are the ones you see the most man? What's what's offender number one of where people are trying to innovate where they probably shouldn't be? I would say one that I see on the YC application that I love is when it's like some kind of weird incorporation Yes, so, you know, we incorporated as a Wyoming LLC and I'm like, this was a voluntary red flag like this is like yeah, what why Would you do that? And like sometimes they'll even write well because like And you're just like well, I think my theory is there's a lot of smart people again they want to have it in different ways and they'll look at something like corporate law in the existence of the Delaware C Corp and be like I Someone that knows nothing about this could do better. Yes And everyone else is doing Delaware C Corp. Yes, that's not for me. I'm gonna do a and then crazy things happen. Yes, right and so Probably corporate governance is not the best place to innovate one thing. That's been funny Headline ripped in the news is yes people looking at the corporate structure of open AI. Yep, and being like oh This is an interesting. This is an instruction manual A nonprofit that owns a for-profit would not recommend that strategy even the people that work working there I mean even Sam himself has suggested that that was perhaps not the wisest choice. And so again the point here is The miracle of making something we want is the hard part. Yeah, but if you're just doing like a startup, you know Delaware C Corps are pretty good. Yeah You know, I see another one because you know corporate governance that covers, you know your investment docs and where you're incorporating and all that kind of stuff your vesting bubble blah your Your classes of shares like I sometimes see founders doing crazy stuff I see another one that you brought up though, which I really love is the like I'm gonna make this startup But I'm also gonna disprove every piece of startup advice Like I love this like I'm only willing to help my customer if I can simultaneously prove that all of the startup advice is incorrect Yes, it's like What like and so yeah So the example of that is just to take something that is like widely considered useful or true Yeah, and try to prove the opposite of it Yes, you know like my thing will be reliant upon making the small town that I live in The center of the startup ecosystem or something like somehow there'll be other some other bet they're making Yes that involves a super contrarian thing. Yes. It has nothing to do actually I can think of an example of these by the way Yes, one of these was I remember a founder doing something unrelated to you know, keep this anonymous Yeah but they were like the real thing the real bet we're trying to make is the hydrogen economy and that no one will use gasoline or solar or wind or or or But then in the future, we're gonna use hydrogen everywhere. I was like hmm Hey, man, maybe don't mention that We'll keep this between us Maybe when you're that's the real secret Maybe you should keep that on the down low Again, like in the case was like maybe he's right. Yeah, but had nothing to do with the actual bet of the startup No, and to try to throw in this long shot bet that we're all gonna be using hydrogen for everything again Maybe he's right. Oh, that seemed like a completely unnecessary risk or thing to innovate on yeah, and I think that what's so sad about these things is that I Think there's a Misunderstanding of how hard it is to make something that people want Where people think that they have these extra points this extra juice to spread to do other things with and I just I always like To tell people it's like this game is so hard Without this stuff. I'm like, why do you want the game to be harder? Like I never understand that. Is it fun? Yeah, okay. Let me give you examples. I mean, that's a fun. Okay. Sure like nerd bait kind of stuff. Sure again I this is my recollection But my recollection is that when I believe it was a sauna when they started they wrote their own programming language Of course first, of course, and why would you do that? Because it's fun. I believe they back that out again I'm someone correct me if I'm wrong on this, but a lot of times choosing very idiosyncratic Programming languages or text acts. Yep. People choose to do it because it's fun and Who am I defaulting for that? But like that's like it's like they're optimizing for like wouldn't it be cool if we wrote our entire thing in this new Idiosyncratic programming language. Yeah, that's such a it's like I get it on one hand and your startup should be fun, right? Like you're doing it for a while. I get it on one hand, but I've never seen a founder who didn't have the most fun When I helping their customer, do you remember in the reddit versus dig wars dig made a lot of technical bets Along these lines like meaning like they made a lot of very high-risk. Yes technology choices While reddit was just like not let's make a social news site. Well, I don't think they were taking any high-risk Yeah, so this again is an example where dig was taking on all this extra risk on something had nothing to do with dig.com Loading news stories. No, it was it was literally about the Technologies they were choosing to power the website. Yes Well, and the one I remember was when they did the revision and they couldn't roll it back when the site didn't work Yes, that is correct. Yeah, they redesigned everything all the time. It was really impressive I think the other thing that comes up a lot around innovation is business model and pricing Yep, I think this once again Is not putting the customer first, you know, hey Let's say you're selling cloud compute, right? Your customers have probably bought AWS before maybe You should charge like AWS does right because maybe your customers will recognize that and that will give them comfort Yep. No, that's wrong. We hate AWS. We can't do anything like Including pricing. So now your customer looks at this pricing thing and they're like, well, I really like your product But I don't I don't understand your pricing page doesn't make sense. But yeah, it's not even that they don't want to pay They're like, I don't understand What you're saying or how this works? No, I don't like loosers Yeah, and then I get credits for floozles and then I transfer them into the like like super rich Yes, and by the time I met that page I just want to know what it costs and if I can't figure out what it costs Like how do I you you I'm walking you invited me in your home and then you've shot me in the leg No, I you buy me your home and I can't open the front door Yeah, like the door handle like I don't I don't know how to use your door handle and I really wanted to come in I did I was I was game. I had my money. I was ready to buy something so I think that like So much of this kind of pop entrepreneur Shark tanky Advice, right? I actually think comes from a different place. I think it actually comes from like weird branding and like I think that like in the branding world like Being different being unique like like that is like a very very important thing and like a lot of the examples In the branding world are people who did things like radically different and then like became successful what I find funny is that a lot of the examples in the technology world are people who did things 80% the same and 20% at least 80% 80% was the was the minimum that they copied Yeah and so I think one of the things that's founders screw up is when they take advice that might work in fashion and Apply it to yeah software because yeah This is a usability if people can't use your thing Like I remember back in a people would try to innovate on the website design and how the cursor worked and like how you would even Click buttons and that was an example of probably not helpful innovation. No and so watch out for Unintentionally creating risk that you don't need to create. Yeah, and and I think that if you Put your first your customer first second and third you might look at some of these other things and say do I really need? To do them or better yet. Let me do it on my second startup Let's get let's get one successful startup out of the way and then I can make programming languages I can hire people all around the world. I can do all kinds of crazy great nonprofit. I can build rockets I can do all kinds of cool things. Yeah startup number two All right, good shot You