You famously said when you were younger there were five problems that you thought were most important for you to work on. If you were 22 today, what would the five problems that you would think about working on be? Well, first of all, I think if somebody is doing something that is useful to the rest of society, I think that's a good thing. It doesn't have to change the world. If you're doing something that has high value to people, and frankly, even if it's something, if it's like just a little game or some improvement in photo sharing or something, if it has a small amount of good for a large number of people, I think that's fine. Stuff doesn't need to change the world just to be good, but in terms of things that I think are most likely to affect the future of humanity, I think AI is probably the single biggest item in the near term that's likely to affect humanity. It's very important that we have the advent of AI in a good way. That is something that if you could look at the crystal ball and see the future, you would like that outcome because it is something that could go wrong, as we've talked about many times. We really need to make sure it goes right. I think working on AI and making sure it's a great future, that's the most important thing I think right now, the most pressing item. Then, obviously, anything to do with genetics. If you can actually solve genetic diseases, if you can prevent dementia or Alzheimer's or something like that, with genetic reprogramming, that would be wonderful. I think genetics might be the second most important item. I think having a high bandwidth interface to the brain, we're currently bandwidth limited. We have a digital tertiary self in the form of our email capabilities, our computers, phones, applications. We're effectively superhuman, but we're extremely bandwidth constrained in that interface between the cortex and that tertiary digital form of yourself. Helping solve that bandwidth constraint would be, I think, very important for the future as well.