Why does your company deserve more money? Yes. Dun dun. The hardest conversation I have to have with the founder is when they've spent their $1 to $2 million angel round but haven't found product-market fit. Unfortunately, I have to ask them a very unforgiving question. Why does your company deserve more money? Yeah. This is so hard. This is really hard for YC companies. Yeah. Like, in one way, we try to make YC companies feel very special. And certainly, the investing community often makes YC companies feel really special. But man, isn't it weird that someone who's given $2 million to do something and doesn't succeed thinks, you know what? I need another $2 million. Like, you know, it's like part of me just wants to bring people back to the real world, you know? It's like, you know, maybe you do, right? Maybe the next $2 million is going to make it work, right? Maybe. I'm not willing to say it won't. But I think we should just, like, it's certainly a lot easier to raise that money if you've done something for the first $2 million, you know? And I think sometimes founders, once again, sometimes founders kind of cargo cult. Like, they think, oh, well, we have this team. We built a team, right? We have this product, right? Got a cool office. Yeah, we have a cool office. Like, look at what we've done, right? And it's like, nobody's grading you on those things. Like, those are means to an end, not an end. Like, you can't be like, oh, I'm an NFL coach. And look, we have a team. We have this amazing stadium, right? You should renew me, right? It's like, well, the record of the team is, like, zero wins. You can't get another contract if you have no wins, you know? Moreover, if you do, I mean, you might have all the MVPs. But if they can't play together, you know? Then no wins, right? And so I think that, like, people like to confuse means for ends. Because means are a lot easier to get. I can go out and get an office. I can go and hire, right? Solving people's problems, that's hard. So a lot of the time, I have to have these conversations with founders where I'm just like, look, like, what is an alternative path? Like, if you don't really deserve money right now, what is an alternative path? And like, the sad but true fact is, cutting burn and trying to get to break even is more often than not the right thing to do if you haven't hit product market fit for that first $1 to $2 million. More often, that's what's going to create that leverage. You get to break even, and that gives you time to figure things out. You're like, like we said before, like, not having product market fit doesn't mean you're not growing. It doesn't mean you're not generating revenue, right? It just means that you're not taking off. Yeah. And oftentimes, that just means you need more time. But like, asking investors for that time is oftentimes way less fruitful than just cutting burn and giving yourself that time with the revenue that you're generating. Exactly. And like, man, I learned this the hard way at Justin.TV. Sometimes I just think at Justin.TV, I just had myself completely fooled. Like, literally, I just, like, I was out there pitching a site that like, half of the usage was spreading copyrighted content. It was like a public site. Like, any investor could just, before the meeting, go to our website, and like, in three clicks, see content we did the rights to. And then I would go in and try to pitch someone how that was going to be a billion-dollar business, right? Like, I don't even know how I did it, looking back, right? Like, you know, crazy. You seem to have made every mistake, so. Many, many mistakes. Many of the mistakes. I like to write about things where I have personal mistake experience. But like, I will tell you that when we broke even at Justin.TV, that was the moment of, like, infinite clarity. And what was weird is that, like, looking back, one of the things I see in other founders, and I recognize in myself, is that when you're operating on the investor's dime, oftentimes you're trying to optimize what the investor wants to hear. And oftentimes you're trying to structure your pitch and your strategy to what's going to get us more money. Because it turns out the investor is really your customer, because they're the only one giving you the money you need to survive. And your users become secondary. When you hit break-even, there's this magical moment where you realize, wait a second, like, I can just generate money for my users. I don't need these investors anymore. And like, strangely, like, weirdly, the only group of users who, the only group of people who are harder to understand than users, are investors. For many people, some people can just spin investors, you know. Some people have a way with investors. But for many people, investors are this really confusing group. And it's like, well, I'd rather fight the user fight than the investor fight. And that was the case for us. And it was so interesting. Man, we never had a better strategy. We never had a better plan. We never had better execution than two moments. One, when we were running out of money. And two, when we were hit break-even. It was just, wow. The clarity was amazing. And just like, man. And the fear went away. It's like, this isn't going to die tomorrow. You have confidence, and then all of a sudden, when you look at the other side of the table, now you have a product that the investor wants. Isn't that funny? When you don't need investment, guess who comes running? Oh, you need some more money? Yeah, no problem. I'll cover you guys. Classic. And I think basically the way you wrap up is like, this is about leverage. So what you say is, don't limp into a Series A fundraise. You need to be able to show that you have taken the early investment money and used it sensibly to create a product that people love. You need to have sustained growth to raise a Series A. Understand that, and you'll be better off than most startups. It's kind of simple, right? Yeah, I know. It's interesting. We have a Series A program at YC. And we help YC companies. It tends to be like 12 to 24 months after YC, prep for and raise Series A. And at the kickoff meeting, it's very similar to the kickoff meeting at YC. Everyone goes around in a circle and says what they do. But the difference is that everyone says their revenue, too. And it was so much fun to be at the kickoff meeting for the Series A because you'd hear some idea. It's like, oh, I'm doing yada, yada, yada. And like, you know, YC. What are you doing? And like, you know, YC, we hear ideas all the time. And it's like, yeah, okay, that's another idea. And then the founder's like, we're doing $5 million in revenue. And you're like, oh. That's different. And then the next person's like, we're doing $3.5 million in revenue. And the next person's like, oh, we're doing $4 million. And it's so funny how an idea sounds better when there's a revenue number after it. And so, what's so funny is that, I think what YC's good at is that if you can create an idea like if you can create the business leverage, if you can make your business work, we can help you present that in the leverage maximizing way. And we can help you do a process that maximizes the leverage that you've created. But you have to create the core leverage. Like, you've got to do the work. You've got to do the work. You've got to figure out the product that gets that usage. And then we can help you package it and sell it most effectively. It's fun to see when that works. You can't predict it. If you asked me years before who was going to be in that Series A program, I would not have known. But man, those founders are far more formidable. When they have something, they're killers. Quiet strength when you've got shit. You don't need to flaunt it. No, you don't need a... It's funny because sometimes I see people with snazzy pitches and snazzy... Things that remind me of stuff you would hear on a TV infomercial. And it's like, you don't need that much work when you have a good company. Usually you can just... Graphs. You just show graphs. And it's like, oh wow, that's really working. Yeah, it is. Awesome. All right, thanks man. All right, thank you. you